# Home Loan Service

## Document:
System Requirement Specification Document

## Title:
System Requirement Specification for Home Loan Service

## Team: 
Loan Officer, Operationl executive, Credit Manager,Admin

## Objective (Purpose):
The study was mainly condected to understand the concept of home loan schem and the eligibility criteria of customer 
on their individual cibil score. The study is done to understand the documents involved in the home loan scheme and the 
repayment methodology adopted by various banks.The innovative home loan schemes and the risk capturing mechanism adopted 
by based on consecative three EMI payment failed. 	

## Scope:
The main purpose to build this application program is to reduce the human efforts by using software. The project is 
totally built at administrative end and thus only the administrators guaranteed will access this system. 
This software is a mainly related to customer individuals who are intrested in taking Home Loan from bank to fullfill their dreams.
The process is filter by position to Offical position.

## Definitions:
	HLS : Home Loan Service
  Portal : Official Online Web Application
  KPI : Key Performance Indicator
  CIBI Score : Credit Information Bureau India Ltd.
  Dashboard : Personalized information presented using  BI techniques such as grid, KPI

## Functional Requirements:

Login access givan to Loan Officer, Operationl executive, Credit Manager,Admin


Loan Officer Login :

Loan officer want the information of customer who require the loan for their dream home. And
the details over to the Operationl executive. After the succedence status given by Credit Manager
whome customer whose is valid again handover to loan officer. 


Operationl executive Login :

Credit Manager is mean to give the result status about primary document verification.
customer who failed to submit their primary document there leagal action taken and responsible by operatioanl executive.
3. After the document verification the customer case is handover to credit manager.

Credit Manager:
The Credit manager is higly responsible official body who udertakes the physical property evaluation on the basis of muncipal corporation rules.
After the completion of evalution on the basis of rules and regulation the precisious  letter which is sanction letter is generated by credit manager.
Then the credit manager is responsible to handover customer's case agin to the loan officer.

Account Head:
The Account head is Higher authority.
The requested customer who legally agrees to terms and conditions of basic rules of loan management, 
and signed their autogenerated sanction letter given to the admin head.
Then it admin head responsibilty to assign loan amount or disburse the loan amount on the basis of their overall future funds requirement.
COntinue to the regular loan period if three consecutive EMI missed by the customer, they will be added in defaulter list and directly assessed by account head.
	
## NonFunctional Requirement:

### Security
System will provide access to  the content , operations using Role based security (Authorization) (Permissions based on Role)
Using SSL in all transactions  which will be performed stakeholder. It would protect confidential information shared by system to stake holder of Shared by stakeholder to system.
System will automatically log of  all stakeholder after some time due to inactiveness.
System will block operations for inactive  stakeholder and would redirect for authentication.
System  will internally maintain secure communiction channel between Servers ( Web Servers, App Servers, databse Server)
Sensitive data will be always encrypted across communcation.
User proper firewall to protect servers from out side fishing, velnerable attacks.


### Reliability
The system will backup business data on regular basis and recover in short time duration to keep system operational
Continous updates are matained , continous Adminstration is done to keep system operational.
During peak hours system will maintain same user experaince by managing load balacning .

### Availability
uptime:   24* 7  available  99.999%
	
### Maintainability:
A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
A readymade Web Server will be installed to host online shopping portal (Web Site) to management server capabilities.
IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Adminstrative tools provided by Servers.
Separate enviornment will be maintained for system for isolation in  production, testing, and development.

### Portablility:
PDA: Portable Device Application
System will provide portable User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through  users will be able to access online shopping portal.
System can be deployed to single server, multi server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP)

### Accessibility:


### Durability:


### Efficiency:

### Modularity:

### Scalability:

### Safety:	

